First, a word about sceptical, as
opposed to straight, solutions to sceptical paradoxes or problems. The
locus classicus for sceptical solutions is of course Hume's Enquiry.
His solution is a sceptical solution to his sceptical problem because
it accepts the legitimacy or the upshot of the sceptical doubts
concerning reason or the understanding. More specifically, Hume's
sceptical doubts purport to show that neither reason nor the
understanding are what we use to assure ourselves about future "matters
of fact", nor do we use them to draw our "causal conclusions", e.g.,
bread will always nourish us. A straight solution to this problem would
consist of showing that Hume's sceptical doubts are faulty and that in
fact reason or the understanding is the source of our assurance or our
causal conclusions. Hume proposes however, that custom or habit is the
source of such assurance and conclusions. As such, Hume has accounted
for our assurance and our conclusions without having to go back on any
of his earlier sceptical doubts about reason or the understanding. As
such, he has provided a sceptical solution to the sceptical doubts.
(For the record, contra Kripke, a sceptical solution does not require
that one acknowledge or accept the "unanswerability" of the sceptical
doubts. See K, p. 66. It requires only that the sceptical solution not
go back on, not contravene, anything claimed in the sceptical doubts.
There may very well be a straight solution to Hume's problem but Hume
provides a solution that does not go back on his sceptical doubts).